# public_scripts

This folder is a little collection of scripts I've written over the years.  I'll be adding and uploading them gradually, so check back periodically to see what's new.

There is no support or guarantees with them:  you use them at your own risk.

They may be Bash, Ruby or Python, depending on what mood I was in that day.

# Index

### aws-sts

Retrieve and format an AWS STS Credential for the shell environment.

This script uses your CLI [AWS credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html?shortFooter=true) to get an [AWS Security Token Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/welcome.html) temporary credential.  

This is useful for those of us with Multi-Factor Authentication enabled on our accounts.  If MFA is enabled, your Access Key and Secret Key are used in conjunction with your current MFA token to generate a temporary Access Key, Secret Key and Session Token.  You can set these in the environment and then use the CLI as normal.  

#### Requirements

Script type: bash.

Must be in path:

* jq
* aws v3+

#### Usage

If you are using a multiprofile `~/.aws/config`, ensure you have selected the correct profile by doing `export AWS_PROFILE=my_profile_name` prior to continuing.

1. Store your MFA serial (usually of the form `arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:mfa/YOUR_USERNAME`) in your current profile with:
```bash
aws configure set mfa_serial arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT:mfa/YOUR_USERNAME
```
2. Use your MFA device to get the current token, and run the script to see what it's going to do:
```bash
aws-sts CURRENT_TOKEN_SERIAL
```
This will obtain an STS token for you and spit out the right shell code to set up the temporary credential:
```bash
unset AWS_DEFAULT_REGION AWS_SESSION_TOKEN AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID;
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-west-1;
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN="SESSION_TOKEN_REDACTED";
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="ACCESS_KEY_REDACTED";
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="SECRET_KEY_REDACTED"
```
3. Run the code again and have the shell run the result:
```bash
eval $(aws-sts CURRENT_TOKEN_SERIAL)
```
n.b. the tokens generated are valid for one use and one minute, so in the event of an error, you may have to wait for a new token to be generated.

This will export the temporary session credentials generated by STS and allow you to use the `aws` CLI command as normal.  If your session expires, or you need to generate new credentials, run step 3 again.

---

### run-until-error

Run a command line until it returns an error (nonzero) code.

#### Requirements

Script type: Ruby.

#### Usage
```bash
run-until-error do_something arg1 arg2
```

---

### eachdir

Run a command line in every subdirectory from the current working directory.  The command prints the directory in which it is running, followed by the output of the command.

#### Requirements

Script type: Ruby.

#### Usage
```bash
eachdir git status
```
